=head1 NAME

Badger::Changes - Summary of changes in the Badger toolkit

=head1 CHANGES

This document contains a brief overview of what has changed between
successive version of the Badger toolkit.

Mr T is our badger mascot.  He no longer pities the fool that uses Badger
in a production system.  Which is a roundabout way of saying that Badger
is now stable, reliable, and unlikely to change significantly in future
versions.

Badger is already being deployed in commercial production systems that I've
built and I wouldn't be doing that if I wasn't 99.9% certain of its
suitability and fitness for purpose. There are no guarantees of course, but it
may help you to sleep at night knowing that I have a heavily vested interest
in keeping the Badger fit and healthy.  But remember that you use it at your
own risk and it's not my fault if it doesn't make unicorns dance across the
sky for you.

As of version 0.09, Badger is being used as the foundation for both the
new version of the Template Toolkit, Template::TT3 and also for the drop
in replacement for the existing Template modules, Template::TT2.  They're
not on CPAN at the time of writing (although they might be by the time
you read this), but the source code is avaiable via github at
L<http://github.com/abw/Template-TT2> and L<http://github.com/abw/Template-TT3>.

=head2 Version 0.10 - Not Yet released

Added L<Badger::Comparable>, L<Badger::Duration>, L<Badger::Filter>,
L<Badger::Workplace>, L<Badger::Workspace> and L<Badger::Config::Filesystem>.

Refactored parts of L<Badger::Config>.

Changed L<Badger::Base> L<message()|Badger::Base/message()> method to allow
message formats to be defined in C<$self->{ messages }> when C<$self> is a
blessed hash object.

Added L<no_config()|Badger::Hub/no_config()> method to L<Badger::Hub>.

Fixed a bug in the L<auto_can|Badger::Class::Methods/auto_can()> feature
of L<Badger::Class::Methods> which prevented it from working with subclasses.

Fixed a bug in L<Badger::Debug> L<dump_ref()|Badger::Debug/dump_ref()>
to make it directly call other C<dump_XXX()> functions instead of relying on
inheritance of those methods through C<$self>.

Added L<plurality()|Badger::Utils/plurality()>,
L<inflect()|Badger::Utils/inflect()>,
L<list_each()|Badger::Utils/list_each()>,
L<hash_each()|Badger::Utils/hash_each()>,
L<extend()|Badger::Utils/extend()>,
L<merge()|Badger::Utils/merge()>,
L<split_to_list()|Badger::Utils/split_to_list()>,
L<join_uri()|Badger::Utils/join_uri()> and
L<resolve_uri()|Badger::Utils/resolve_uri()>,
to L<Badger::Utils>.

Added additional delegate hooks to L<Badger::Utils> to load utility functions
in L<Badger::Filesystem>, L<Badger::Timestamp>, L<Badger::Duration>,
L<Badger::Logic> and L<Badger::URL>.

Squashed a non-numerical warning in Badger::Timestamp.

Added the L<UTF8|Badger::Constants/UTF8>, L<JSON|Badger::Constants/JSON>
and L<YAML|Badger::Constants/YAML> constants to L<Badger::Constants>.

Fixed L<Badger::Codec::YAML> to work better with L<YAML::XS> and
L<Badger::Codec::JSON> to work better with L<JSON::XS>.

=head2 Version 0.09 - 8th February 2012

Added L<Badger::Codec::Timestamp>. Changed L<Badger::Timestamp> to numify
values to remove leading zeroes (e.g. 2012/04/20 now yields a month of 4
instead of 04).

Fixed some obscure bugs in the module loading code in L<Badger::Class> and
related modules that could potentially cause unpredictable results on
case insensitive file systems (e.g. Apple's HFS with default settings).

Added the L<restat()|Badger::Filesystem::Path/restat()> method to
L<Badger::Filesystem::Path>.

Added documentation for various methods that was missing.  Temporary
disabled the Pod::Coverage tests on AUTOMATED_TESTING systems.  We know
there's still stuff to do.

Added SLASH to Badger::Constants

=head2 Version 0.08 - 13th January 2012

Restored the C<$VERSION> variable to L<Badger.pm|Badger> rather than using
the C<version> import hook in L<Badger::Class> which confused PAUSE.

Changed L<Badger::Test::Manager> to detect undefined results.

Merged Michael Grubb's bug fix for L<Badger::Base>:
L<https://github.com/abw/Badger/pull/1>

Fixed some minor documentation issues.

=head2 Version 0.07 - 2nd January 2012

Added L<Badger::Storage>, L<Badger::Storage::Memory>.
and L<Badger::Storage::Filesystem>.

Added L<Badger::Codec::TT>.

Added the L<permissions()|Badger::Filesystem::Path/permissions()> method to
L<Badger::Filesystem::Path>. Added
L<temp_directory()|Badger::Filesystem/temp_directory()> and
L<temp_file()|Badger::Filesystem/temp_file()> methods to
L<Badger::Filesystem>. Also changed the L<Path()|Badger::Filesystem/Path()>,
L<File()|Badger::Filesystem/File()> and L<Dir()|Badger::Filesystem/Dir()>
functions to short-circuit and return if passed a single object that is
already of the expected type.

Added some extra comparison methods to L<Badger::Timestamp>
(L<not_equal()|Badger::Timestamp/not_equal()>,
(L<not_before()|Badger::Timestamp/not_before()> and
L<not_after()|Badger::Timestamp/not_after()>) and overloaded
these and other methods onto the C<==>, C<!=>, C<E<lt>>, C<E<gt>>, C<E<lt>=>
and C<E<gt>=> operators.

Added the L<export_before()|Badger::Exporter/export_before()> and
L<export_after()|Badger::Exporter/export_after()> methods to
L<Badger::Exporter>.

Added the L<if_env|Badger::Test/if_env> import hook and
C<-a|Badger::Test/all()> option to L<Badger::Test> to make it easier to
define tests that don't get run unless a particular environment variable
is set (e.g. for Pod coverage/kwalitee tests that you only want to run
if either of the C<RELEASE_TESTING> or C<AUTOMATED_TESTING> environment
variables is set).

Added the L<random_name()|Badger::Utils/random_name()>,
L<camel_case()|Badger::Utils/camel_case()> and
L<permute_fragments()|Badger::Utils/permute_fragments()> functions to
L<Badger::Utils>. Also add some extra debugging code to
L<params()|Badger::Utils/params()> and
L<self_params()|Badger::Utils/self_params()> to catch any attempt to pass an
odd number of arguments.

Changed the L<Badger::Factory> module to use
L<permute_fragments()|Badger::Utils/permute_fragments()> on the module path
when specified as a single string. Also added the
L<default()|Badger::Factory/default()> and
L<names()|Badger::Factory/names()> methods along with their corresponding
package variable magic.

Added the L<debug_callers()|Badger::Debug/debug_callers()>,
L<debugf()|Badger::Debug/debugf()> and L<debug_at()|Badger::Debug/debug_at()>
methods to L<Badger::Debug>.

Added the L<alias()|Badger::Class/alias()> method to
L<Badger::Class>.

Added the L<auto_can()|Badger::Class::Methods/auto_can()> method to
L<Badger::Class::Methods>.

Changed the L<Badger::Class::Config> module to store the configuration scheme
in C<$CONFIG_SCHEMA> instead of C<$CONFIG>.

Added the L<Badger::Codec::HTML> module which defines the C<html> codec.

Changed the L<throw()|Badger::Base/throw()> method in L<Badger::Base> to
pass the exception type to L<exception()|Badger::Base/exception()>.

Changed the L<try()|Badger::Base/try()> method in L<Badger::Base> to
preserve the list/scalar calling context and to handle false but defined
values.

Cleaned up and generalised the L<Badger::Hub> module.  The Badger-specific
data has now been moved into L<Badger::Hub::Badger>.  The C<configure()>
method is now called L<construct()|Badger::Hub/construct()>.

=head2 Version 0.06

Added L<copy_file()|Badger::Filesystem/copy_file()> and
L<move_file()|Badger::Filesystem/move_file()> to L<Badger::Filesystem> and
L<copy()|Badger::Filesystem/copy()> and L<move()|Badger::Filesystem/move()>
methods to L<Badger::Filesystem::File>.

Added L<chmod_path()|Badger::Filesystem/chmod_path()> to L<Badger::Filesystem>
and L<chmod()|Badger::Filesystem::Path/chmod()> to L<Badger::Filesystem::Path>.

Added L<Bin()|Badger::Filesystem/Bin()> to L<Badger::Filesystem>.

Added the L<encoding()|Badger::Filesystem::File/encoding()> method to
L<Badger::Filesystem::File> for specifying the encoding of a file, along
with the L<utf8()|Badger::Filesystem::File/utf8()>,
L<bytes()|Badger::Filesystem::File/bytes()>,
L<crlf()|Badger::Filesystem::File/crlf()> and
L<raw()|Badger::Filesystem::File/raw()> methods for enabling different
encoding layers.

Added the L<codec()|Badger::Filesystem::File/codec()> method to
L<Badger::Filesystem::File> for specifying a serialisation codec to use in
conjunction with the new  L<data()|Badger::Filesystem::File/data()> method.

Added L<Badger::Timestamp>. This is returned by the new
L<created()|Badger::Filesystem::Path/created()>,
L<accessed()|Badger::Filesystem::Path/accessed()> and
L<modified()|Badger::Filesystem::Path/modified()> methods in
L<Badger::Filesystem::Path>.

Added L<Badger::Logic>.

Added L<Badger::Log> and L<Badger::Log::File>.

Added L<numlike()|Badger::Utils/numlike()> to L<Badger::Utils>
as an alias for C<looks_like_number>.  It's the numerical counterpart
to L<textlike()|Badger::Utils/textlike()> and is significantly easier
to type.

Added L<debug_msg()|Badger::Base/debug_msg()> to L<Badger::Base>. Also added
the C<Badger::Base::Trial> class definition for use with the
L<try()|Badger::Base/try()> method.

Added L<lib|Badger/lib> import hook to L<Badger>.

Added L<bclass|Badger::Class/bclass> as an alias for
L<class|Badger::Class/class> in L<Badger::Class>.

Changed L<Badger::Class::Config> to maintain the order of configuration
parameters where possible (i.e. when expressed as a list ref rather than
a hash ref).  Also added C<target:var> fallback which looks in the target
object or hash ref for the variable.  This allows options to default to
the values set by preceeding options.

Changed L<Badger::Codec::JSON> to use L<JSON::XS> if available.

Mr T is now using Badger 0.06 in production code and is happy to report that
everything seems to be working rather well.  Anyone for a game of tennis?

=head2 Version 0.05 - 23rd December 2008

Refactored L<Badger::Factory>.

Added support to L<Badger::Exporter> for the C<=> pseudo-sigil which can be
used to create constants on the fly.

    package Badger::Example;
    use Badger::Class
        exports => {
            tags => {
                math => {
                    e   => '=2.718',
                    pi  => '=3.142',
                    phi => '=1.618',
                },
            }
        };

    package main;
    use Badger::Example ':math';

    print e;            # 2.718
    print pi;           # 3.142
    print phi;          # 1.618

Mr T is starting to feel rather confident about building a production system
based on Badger v0.05.

=head2 Version 0.04 - 2nd December 2008

Added the L<throw_msg()|Badger::Base/throw_msg()> method to L<Badger::Base>.

Added L<init_method|Badger::Class/init_method> hook to L<Badger::Class> and
L<initialiaser()|Badger::Class/initialiaser()> to L<Badger::Class::Methods>.

Changed L<Badger::Exception> L<match_type()|Badger::Exception/match_type()>
method to accept a list or hash reference, or a string of whitespace delimited
exception types.

Changed L<Badger::Factory> to pass C<$name> as an argument to various methods.
Also passes arguments to load() (required for Template::TT2::Plugins)
Also modified L<item()|Badger::Factory/item()> to accept a non-textlike
type argument which bypasses the module lookup.

Moved a whole bunch of stuff out of L<Badger::Class> into C<Badger::Class::*>
modules.

Added L<Badger::Class::Config> for simple configuration.

Added L<hash()|Badger::Methods/hash()> method to L<Badger::Methods> and
L<hash_methods|Badger::Class|hash_methods> hook to L<Badger::Class>.

Added L<trace()|Badger::Exception/trace> hook and related paraphernalia to
L<Badger::Exception>. Added the C<-t> / C<--trace> command line options to
L<Badger::Test> to enable it when running tests.  Also added C<-h> / C<--help>
options.

Added L<Codec()|Badger::Codecs/Codec()> exportable subroutine to
L<Badger::Codecs>.

Added L<Badger::Codec::URL>.  It's similar to L<Badger::Codec::URI>,
but slightly different.  See the TT uri/url filters for the reason.

Changed the L<prototype()|Badger::Prototype/prototype()> method in
L<Badger::Prototype> to accept a single C<undef> value to clear any current
prototype. Also added the L<has_prototype()|Badger::Prototype/has_prototype()>
method.

Mr T is looking on the bright side about the possibility of building a
production system based on Badger v0.04, but still advises caution.

=head2 Version 0.03 - 7th October 2008

Added delegate loaders to L<Badger>.  This provides some semantic sugar
for loading a bunch of different C<Badger::*> modules in one go.

    use Badger
        Filesystem  => 'FS $Bin',
        Codecs      => 'storable base64',
        Debug       => {
            modules => 'My::Module',
        };

Added L<different()|Badger::Test::Manager/different()> to
L<Badger::Test::Manager>.

Added L<textlike()|Badger::Utils/textlike()> to L<Badger::Utils>

Added the L<overload|Badger::Class/overload>
L<as_text|Badger::Class/as_text> and
L<is_true|Badger::Class/is_true> import hooks and related method to
L<Badger::Class>.  These delegate to the C<overload> module.

Added the L<print|Badger::Filesystem::File/print()> method to
L<Badger::Filesystem::File>.

Added support for
L<dynamic root directories|Badger::Filesystem::Virtual/"virtual root directories">
to L<Badger::Filesystem::Virtual>.

Added the L<defaults|Badger::Class/defaults> and L<aliases|Badger::Class/aliases>
hooks to L<Badger::Class>, implemented by L<Badger::Class::Defaults> and
L<Badger::Class::Aliases>, respectively.  There are still experimental.

Fixed up some stat handling in L<Badger::Filesystem> to help with subclassing
in L<Badger::Filesystem::Virtual>

Mr T pities the fool that attempts to builds a production system based on
Badger version 0.03 without first evaluating it carefully and reading the
documentation.

=head2 Version 0.02 - 6th September 2008

L<Badger::Class> got the L<vars|Badger::Class/vars()> method and hook
for declaring and defining variables.

L<Badger::Utils> gained the ability to load and export functions from
L<Scalar::Util>, L<List::Util>, L<List::MoreUtils>, L<Hash::Util> and
L<Digest::MD5>.

Various documentation updates.

Mr T admires the tenacity of anyone attempting to build a production system
based on Badger v0.02 and hopes they have a thorough test suite.

=head2 Version 0.01 - 27th August 2008

This was the first release version.

Mr T pities the fool who builds a production system based on Badger v0.01.

=head1 AUTHOR

Andy Wardley  E<lt>abw@wardley.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2008-2013 Andy Wardley.  All Rights Reserved.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
